now let's go a little further than the
mystery of the walrus and talk about
what happens when we pass parameters to
functions so it turns out that the
golden rule of equals also applies to
passing of parameters in Java so the
golden rule of equals remember is just
given variables BN a if we say B equals
a we copy all the bits from a into B so
the same thing happens when you pass
parameters to a function what you're
gonna do is whatever bits you want to
give to the function are gonna be copied
to the new scope so let's see an example
so that makes it clear what's going on
so here's a function called average it's
not very glamorous all it does it take a
couple of doubles and return their
average but we're gonna use this as an
example of this rule so when I run main
what it's going to do is first create a
double variable that's 64 bits and fill
in this box here with 5.5 then Y will be
10.5 and then finally we're gonna make a
call to the average function so what
that means is we're gonna take these
bits and hand them over hand copies of
them over to the average function and
it's going to store them in it it's news
in its own scope so it's gonna have
local a and B right this is the
parameter these variables that are
usable only by average it's gonna copy
those bits in okay so that's the scoop
and it's not that there's some arrows
pointing back instead what is happening
is the actual bits are copied into these
boxes I know this there's no like arrows
pointing back this idea of making actual
copies of the bits is sometimes called
pass by value now we're not really gonna
use that term so much in our class but
it might be useful to you at some job
interview but basically in Java you
always pass by value in other words you
always copy the bits so let's see a
little summary of what we've learned so
far
and then I'm going to give you guys the
challenge to make sure this all makes
sense
so to summarize everything we've got so
far
there are nine types of variables in
Java first there are eight primitive
types and then we have a ninth type or
just a set of types you guess you can
say which is references to objects which
could be planets arrays
walruses whatever
and those references we're going to
think of them as arrows but they may
also be known so in this box and pointer
notation we're going to use for the rest
of the class and especially with
understanding our data structures each
variable here right here is going to be
drawn as a box so and it's gonna have a
label so here's a box labeled a a box
labeled B a box labeled X and so forth
so every variable is gonna have a little
box and we're gonna show the values for
that variable are gonna be shown in that
box now rather than show a bunch of
binary digits we're gonna write them in
human readable format for primitive
types that means writing things like 5
or 3.5 or a and for reference types
instead of writing out a binary address
we're gonna represent it by arrows which
are going to point at specific instances
and the Golden Rule in terms of
understanding how the equals operator
works in Java and how a function
parameters are passed is simple when you
say B equals a you're gonna copy the
bits whenever you pass parameters you're
gonna copy the bits that's it